.TH tortoize 1 "2020-11-23" "version 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.if n .ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
tortoize \- Calculate ramachandran z-scores
.SH SYNOPSIS
tortoize [OPTION] input [output]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Tortoize validates protein structure models by checking the
Ramachandran plot and side-chain rotamer distributions. Quality
Z-scores are given at the residue level and at the model level
(ramachandran-z and torsions-z). Higher scores are better. To compare
models or to describe the reliability of the model Z-scores jackknife-
based standard deviations are also reported (ramachandran-jackknife-sd
and torsion-jackknife-sd).
.SH OPTIONS
The input file can be either mmCIF or PDB format and the file may be
gzip or bzip2 compressed.
.sp
The output is a json file, if no file name is specified the output is
written to \fIstdout\fR.
.TP
\fB--dict\fR=<file>
Specify a dictionary file containing restraints for residues specific to
this file.
.TP
\fB--log\fR=<file>
Write a log with diagnostic information to this file.
.SH REFERENCES
References:
.TP
\fBSobolev et al.\fR
A Global Ramachandran Score Identifies Protein
Structures with Unlikely Stereochemistry, Structure (2020),
DOI: \fIhttps://doi.org/10.1016/j.str.2020.08.005\fR
.TP
\fBVan Beusekom et al.\fR
Homology-based loop modeling yields more complete
crystallographic protein structures, IUCrJ (2018),
DOI: \fIhttps://doi.org/10.1107/S2052252518010552\fR
.TP
\fBHooft et al.\fR
Objectively judging the quality of a protein structure
from a Ramachandran plot, CABIOS (1993),
DOI: \fIhttps://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/13.4.425 \fR
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Maarten L. Hekkelman <maarten@hekkelman.com>
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs at https://github.com/PDB-REDO/cif-tools/issues
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBcif-drop\fR, \fBcif-grep\fR, \fBcif-merge\fR, \fBcif-validate\fR, 
\fBcif2pdb\fR, \fBmmCQL\fR, \fBpdb2cif\fR.
